Added a small howto for a simple container (#62)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: docs/dev_howto/create-a-simple-container-image-obs.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Create a simple container image based on Tumbleweed using OBS (openSUSE Build Service)
---

## Create the project to host the assets

In this case it will be a _subproject_ of the "home:foobar" project

* Go to https://build.opensuse.org/
* Log in
* Go to https://build.opensuse.org/project/show/home:foobar
* Select the "Subprojects" tab
* Press "Create Subproject" (In Left Nav menu);
* Fill in the name (e.g. containers).

## Enable container builds in the project config

* Go to https://build.opensuse.org/project/show/home:foobar

> * Select the "Project Config" tab

Author: You are right, let me fix it.

> * Select the "Project Config" tab

Author: Done PTAL

RUN zypper -n in traceroute iputils netcat-openbsd curl && \
    zypper clean -a
```

## Upload the Dockerfile

* Go to https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/home:foobar:containers/mytoolbox
* Press the "Add File" button
* Choose the file and upload it

## Build results

* Go to https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/home:foobar:containers/mytoolbox
* Images will appear in Build Results section
* Press the "Refresh" button in Build Results section
* Wait for build results.

## Resulting images

If everything went as it should, the container image will be hosted at the [openSUSE registry](https://registry.opensuse.org/)

* Go to https://registry.opensuse.org/
* On the search bar, type "project=^home:foobar:" and press enter
* Click on the package icon or name (home/foobar/containers/images/mytoolbox)
* Expand the tag (latest) to see the Image IDs, arch, build time, etc as well as the `podman pull` command.

## Modify the Dockerfile file via CLI

* Install `osc` via your favourite package manager (see https://en.opensuse.org/openSUSE:OSC)
* Run `osc checkout home:foobar:containers`. It will ask your username/password and a method to store the password safely.

> * Cd into that folder `cd home\:foobar\:containers/mytoolbox/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Navigate to the downloaded project `cd home\:foobar\:containers/mytoolbox/`
```
